SCHOOL POLICY GUIDELINES ON AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
(SPTIC School Memorandum No. 5, s. 2016)

    1. This Policy Guidelines is in line with the guidelines set forth by the Department of Education under DepEd Order No. 36, s. 2016 which is grounded upon the principles of education laid out under Republic Act 10533, Enhanced Basic Education Act of 2013.

    2. St. Paul Technological Institute of Cavite, Inc. (SPTIC) is a private school institution existing and regulated by the government of the Republic of the Philippines. As a private institution for the advancement of knowledge advocating progressive, inclusive, and holistic education grounded upon its vision, mission, goals, and objectives, SPTIC firmly reiterates the importance of awards and recognition in the total and holistic development of the Paulinian learners. 

    3. This Policy Guidelines has been developed in order to institute inclusive, just, merit-, and criteria-based system in formally recognizing the outstanding performance and achievement of the learners in various academic disciplines, responsive leadership, and social responsibility, among other aspects of student progress and development. These awards are given to encourage learners to strive for excellence and to become proactive members of the school community.

    4. This Policy Guidelines is applicable to all bonafide registered students of St. Paul Technological Institute of Cavite, Inc. from NKP to Grade 10, including transferees, aliens, or foreigners whether they are former students, newcomers, or transferees starting SY 2016-17 provided that they will meet the criteria and standards set forth herewith.

    5. The following awards will be given by St. Paul Technological Institute of Cavite, Inc.
        5.1 Classroom Awards. – These are recognition given to learners in each class or section which may be given per quarter, semester, or at the end of the school year by the adviser or other subject teachers in recognition of the learners’ outstanding performance in class.
        5.2 Grade-level Awards. – It is given to qualified learners for every grade level at the end of the school year which involve deliberation by the Awards Committee if they have met the given criteria.
        5.3 Special Recognition. – It is given by the school to the learners who have represented and/or won in competitions at the district, division, regional, national, or international levels to publicly affirm learners who have brought honor to the school.

    6. The Classroom Awards will include the following:

        6.1 Performance Award for Kindergarten 

        6.2 Conduct Awards. – Awards that are given to learners who have been consistently observed to demonstrate (Maka-Diyos, Makatao, Makakalikasan, Makabansa)

        6.3 Character Traits for Kindergarten to Grade 3. – These are awards to affirm the positive traits and attitudes or to recognize the significant improvement in their behaviour (use Annex A to this Memorandum).

        6.4 Conduct Awards for Grades 4 to 10. – An award given at the end of the school year based on the evaluation of the adviser and subject teachers, using the guidelines stipulated in Section VI of DO # 8, s. 2015 and School Memorandum No. 4, s. 2016.

        6.5 Academic Excellence Award. – An award given within the quarter to learners from Grade 1 to 10 who have attained an average of at least 90 and passed all learning areas. Average Grade per quarter is reported as a whole number following DO # 8, s. 2015 adopted by the school in School Memorandum No. 4, s. 2016.

        6.6 Specific Academic Excellence Award is given to learners who meet the cut-off grades presented in Table 1.

Table 1. Ranges of General Average for Academic Excellence Award
ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE AWARD
GENERAL AVERAGE
With Highest Honors/May Pinakamataas na Karangalan
98-100
With High Honors/May Mataas na Karangalan
95-97
With Honors/May Karangalan
90-94

        6.7 Recognition for Perfect Attendance. – An award given monthly and quarterly to encourage learners to attend and actively participate in class. Perfect attendance means that a learner must be present in all of his/her classes, and must have no absences for the entire month or quarter (those who are representing the school for carious purposes e.g. in-school or off-campus activities may also qualify for this award).

    7. The Grade-level Awards will include the following:

        7.1 Academic Excellence Award. – It is an award given to a learner at the end of the school year from Grade 1 to 12 who have attained a General Average of at least 90 and a passing Final Grade in all learning areas. General Average is reports as a whole number following DepEd Order No. 8, s. 2015. The class adviser will give to the Awards Committee the list of qualified learners to be awarded during a school ceremony.

        7.2 Specific Academic Excellence Award is given to learners who meet the following cut-off grades:
Table 2. Ranges of General Average for Academic Excellence Award
ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE AWARD
GENERAL AVERAGE
With Highest Honors/May Pinakamataas na Karangalan
98-100
With High Honors/May Mataas na Karangalan
95-97
With Honors/May Karangalan
90-94

7.3 	Leadership Award.  – This award is given to learners in grades 6 and 10 who have demonstrated exemplary skills in motivating others and organizing projects that have significantly contributed to the betterment of the school and/or community given during the completion or graduation ceremony.

7.3.1 To qualify in the Leadership Award, the learner must:
    • Have no failing grades in any of the learning areas;
    • Have not committed any offence punishable by suspension or higher sanction according to the Department’s service manual and child protection policies in the current school year; and
    • Be a class officer or an active member/offer of any recognized school club, team, or organization.
7.3.2 The school shall adopt the criteria provided by the Department of Education in DO No. 36, s. 2016.

Table 3. Criteria for Leadership Award






















7.4	Award for Outstanding Performance in Specific Disciplines. These awards are given to recognize learners in grades 6 and 10 who have exhibited exemplary skills and achievement in specific disciplines which include Sports, Arts, Communication Arts, Mathematics and Science, Social Sciences, and Technology Education. These awards also value the learner’s achievement in a specific discipline that has contributed to the school and/or community (Use Annex C of this Memorandum for criteria and weights). 
7.4.1	There will be sub-categories of awards for Sports, Arts, Communication Arts, Mathematics and Science, Social Sciences, and Technology Education.
7.4.2	Listed below are the description of the awards for specific disciplines.
7.4.2.1	Outstanding Performance in Sports. This award is given to learners who have shown outstanding skills in sports through participation and victories in competitions, as well as discipline in training and sportsmanlike conduct and character. The academic rating that will be considered for this award would be the student’s final grade in Physical Education.
7.4.2.2	Outstanding Performance in the Arts. This award is given to learners who have consistently demonstrated outstanding skills in the arts (i.e. visual, media, performing arts, etc.) and above average creativity and craftsmanship exemplified through contribution to school’s various functions and events. The academic rating that will be considered for this award is the final grade in Music and Arts.
7.4.2.3	Outstanding Performance in Communication Arts. This award is given to learners who have demonstrated proficiency in any language (Filipino, English, or other foreign languages), in written or in oral communication, shown creativity in expressing ideas in written or oral activities in various subjects, and contributed to the school community. The academic rating that will be considered for this award is the student’s final grade in Filipino, English, or other foreign-language subjects and related learning areas in Senior High School specific to the award.

7.4.2.5	Outstanding Performance in Mathematics. This award is given to learners who have high academic standing in Mathematics, demonstrated passion for math expressed through an excellent attitude toward math work, and shown enthusiasm for math, which positively impacts other students in class. The academic rating that will be considered for this award is the student’s final grade in Mathematics for grades 6 and 10.
7.4.2.6	Outstanding Performance in Social Sciences. This award is given to learners who have high academic standing in social sciences. They have consistently demonstrated the willingness and ability to contribute to and participate in activities that serve the common good. They have used their knowledge, skills, and disposition in history, geography, economics, and other areas of the social sciences to promote the common good and to achieve shared Page 7 of 15 ends for others in the school and/or community above and beyond their personal good. The academic rating that will be considered for this award is the student’s final grade in Araling Panlipunan for grades 6 and 10.
7.4.2.7	Outstanding Performance in Tech-Voc. This award is given to learners who have consistently exhibited exemplary skills and achievement in their area of specialization in technical-vocational (Tech-Voc) education. They have applied their knowledge and skills in Tech-Voc to projects and activities that have contributed to the school and/or community. The academic rating that will be considered for this award is the student’s final grade in Technology and Livelihood Education (TLE) for grades 6 and 10.
7.4.3	Table 4 specifies the criteria and weights that will be used in the evaluation and deliberation process for the award for outstanding performance in specific disciplines. This award shall be given to learners who have met at least 90% (outstanding rating) of the criteria.





























Note: Peer evaluation is only applicable to disciplines that involve collaborative work. Candidates will be evaluated by at least 30% of their peers (group, team, class, or club mates) as well as their class or club advisers.
        7.5 Award for Club or Organization Achievement. – These awards are given to a duly recognized club or organization that has created positive impact on the school and/or community it serves through the implementation of all its planned projects and activities, provided strong support to the implementation of the school activities and attainment of the school’s objectives and taken great strides to help its members develop their potentials.
Table 5 shows the set of criteria and weights that will be used in the evaluation and deliberation process for this award. Only those clubs or organizations that have received at least 90% of the criteria below shall be awarded based on DO No. 36, s. 2016.








Table 5. Criteria and weights for awards for Club or Organization Achievement





















	Special Recognition shall be given to the following:
8.1	Special Recognition shall be given to the following:
8.1.1	Learners who have represented and/or won in competitions at the districts, division, regional, national, or international levels.
8.1.2	Learners who have demonstrated their exemplary performance in academics, athletics, and the arts, and/or represented the school in DepEd recognized activities.
8.1.3	Learners who have brought honor to the school   
8.2	Actual certificates, medals, trophies, and/or plaques received by the learners from the various activities or competitions shall be used to publicly affirm and acknowledge the contribution of the awardees in giving honor to the school which will be done during a flag ceremony or in school awarding ceremony.
8.3	In case of external sponsors, partners, and donors opt to give awards, they shall be regulated by the school, subject to compliance with the policy guidelines. These awards should be consistent with the DepEd’s Vision, Mission, and Core Values, and must be named after the trait, value, or achievement recognized, or an esteemed person who is deceased.
9.	Grade-level awardees shall receive certificates, medals, and/or plaques from the school, bearing the official seal of the SPTIC. The School will adopt the specifications set forth by the Department of Education in DO No. 36, s. 2016 to ensure the quality of awards, certificates, and medals and uphold the prestige of the awards shown in Table 6.
Table 6. Medal and plaque specifications
Award
Technical Specifications

1. Academic Excellence Award 

a. With highest honors


Gold

Medal with SPTIC seal Diameter Size: 6cm Weight: 30g Ribbon width: 1 inch Ribbon color: depending on region

b. With high honors


Silver


c. With honors


Bronze



2. Award for Leadership


Gold

Medal with SPTIC seal Diameter Size: 6cm Weight: 30g Ribbon width: 1 inch Ribbon color: gold



3. Award for Outstanding Performance in the specific learning areas


Gold


4. Award for Club or Organization Achievement (members from different grade levels)


Plaque for the club/organization Certificate for each member with school logo

    10. Certificates indicating the specific awards shall be given to all awardees. It is important to note that in the preparation of certificates, attention to proportional detail is important. The date and venue of the school ceremony should also be complete.
    11. Awardees are recognized through the Committee on Awards and Recognition (CAR) organized by the School Executive Committee at the beginning of the school year.
    12. The CAR must be composed of at least three (3) members from the teaching staff, guidance teacher, or designated teacher. A total count of committee members should be an odd number. The chairperson of the CAR could be any of the teachers, academic coordinators, or class advisers. No member of the CAR must be related within the second degree of consanguinity or affinity to any of the candidates for awards to ensure fairness. The School adopts the steps of the CAR with indicative timelines stipulated under DO 36, s. 2016. Table 7. Steps for determining the awardees
STEP
PROCESS
MONTH

Step 1
Establish the processes of and timelines in accepting nominations and in determining qualifiers for specific awards consistent with the policy guidelines
May to June
Step 2
Formulate rubrics specific to the grade-level awards
July to August
Step 3
Seek approval from the school head or principal on processes, timelines, and rubrics
August
Step 4
Communicate the approved processes, timelines, and rubrics to the school community
August


Step 5
Accept nominees for each award from the class/club advisers based on the minimum requirements set by these guidelines. Those that meet the requirements are endorsed to the CAR by the class/club adviser.
February

Step 6
Evaluate and deliberate candidates for each award based on the portfolio (report card, certificates, documentation) submitted by the learner against the rubrics set by the CAR




March
Step 7
Submit results of the evaluation and deliberation to the school head or principal for approval



Step 8
Ensure that the results of the evaluation and deliberation are communicated to the class advisers, parents, nominees, and school community; (in case of protest/s, the CAR will facilitate its timely resolution)

Step 9
Announce or post the final list of awardees



The reference or mode of verification of the CAR for Academic Excellence and other awards shall be the following: 

13.1	For Academic Excellence, use the report cards and permanent records.
13.2	For other awards, a portfolio of copies of all documents such as DepEd Advisories, written authorization from the SH or principal, certificates, medals, trophies, plaques, accomplishment reports (verified through certifications by proper authorities) and others shall be presented.

14.	The report shall be signed by all members of the committee and certified by the School President. The School President shall approve the final list of awardees upon the recommendation of the committee. However, if the School President is related within the second degree of consanguinity or affinity to any of the candidates for awards, he shall inhibit from participating in the process; the approval shall come from the person next in rank or the Guidance Teacher.

15.	Documents and copies of the results of the CAR deliberations shall be kept in the office of the principal for ready reference. Copies of the results shall be submitted to the Schools Division Office of Dasmariñas City. 

16.	Final list of awardees shall be released by the CAR through the Registrar’s Office upon request for scholarship purposes. 

17.	The Academic Coordinators in-charge for each Department, in coordination with the CAR members and the Guidance Teacher shall determine the roles and assign tasks to the awardees i.e. delivery of graduation speech, batch history. 

18.	Cases of protest shall be filed by the candidate with his/her parent or guardian to the School Executive Committee within three (3) working days from the announcement and shall be decided by them, considering the recommendations of the CAR within three (3) working days from filing.

19.	This Policy Guidelines will take effect immediately and will remain in force until such time that it is repealed, amended, or rescinded. School policy on awards and recognition contained in our Student Manual and Diary for SY 2016-17 is hereby rescinded and will no longer be used as basis for the selection of awardees.
